---
title: Elm 0.17 - Successful Upgrade of Real World App <br>…and some soft of guide to all of this
description: My experience with end to end upgrade from Elm 0.16 to Elm 0.17
redit: /r/elm/comments/4jhaxf/elm_017_successful_upgrade_of_real_world_app_and/
---

*Note: This is mirror of my [original](https://medium.com/@turbo_MaCk/elm-0-17-successful-upgrade-of-real-world-app-and-some-soft-of-guide-to-all-of-this-cafd59dec56f) article published on medium.*

It has been few month since I’ve started to learn Elm programming language.
I’ve been walking around elm for quite a while without ever touching it.
After a while I decided to learn some statically typed functional language.
This was a time when I finally decided to give elm a try. So I started to play with it.
Learn a little bit of learning syntax, core functions, types, Signals, Effects, Mailboxes and Elm architecture.
It was quite interesting journey. Soon I’ll become wonder if I’ll be able to write some smaller project from end to start just using elm.
Some kind of real world application to challenge myself and also this world of typed purity.
I wanted it to talk to some JSON API. Github’s API seems to be good think to start with so I start writing github repository browser in elm.
This is demo of app I’m talking about.

Just few days ago to me unexpected thing happens. Elm 0.17 release was announced!
Everyone who read that article was like “Omg, what’s going on?!”.
From that moment Signals, Messages, Effects and Mailboxes are past of Elm. What should I think of it?

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr"><a href="https://twitter.com/rabbitonweb">@rabbitonweb</a> I&#39;m not sure yet. It&#39;s interesting and scary at the same time.</p>&mdash; Marek Fajkus (@turbo_MaCk) <a href="https://twitter.com/turbo_MaCk/status/730355729778020352">May 11, 2016</a></blockquote>
<script async src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

This was really huge change in how everybody (including me) things about building web apps in elm.
We all know these kind of changes are really hard to bring in practice when you already have large codebase around your ecosystem.
I that moment that app I wrote few month ago came to my mind.
It looks like all packages it needs are ready for 0.17. Plan was made and yesterday I finally found some time to upgrade it to 0.17.

Upgrading is always painful. It really is. I’m working on pretty large Ember.js application in my company.
Ember core team is pretty careful about their deprecation planing. Anyway upgrading that app was (and is) a huge pain.
It’s always a huge pain when you have tens of thousands of code lines written with large test suites.

Such a big design change that elm 0.17 brings to its ecosystem is something that can be impossible to happen to Javascript framework.
Remember Angular 1.x vs 2.x? Express.js vs Koa.js?

Luckily I have pretty small app written in elm which seems to be good candidate for going through this big upgrade process.
I was not afraid of upgrading this since I was able to wrote whole app in one day or so.
Even if I will need to rewrite it completely it will be still just a weekend project.

One thing I think is particularly hard when starting with any upgrade is to find some pattern and split work into few iterations where each has its own goal.
You can’t rewrite whole app at once. This is no how you design it and it shouldn’t be the way how you refactor it as well.

To be honest I was quite chaotic when I started with this upgrad
but soon I realised some (or way how you can split upgrade into smaller iterations if you want) and this is why I’m sharing this story with you.
No matter how big your project is I think you can apply these steps in order to make whole upgrade process of your elm 0.16 to 0.17 sooth and fun.

**Note: This article is just about upgrading web app based on elm-html.
I also have one project written with canvas backend (it’s kind of game) and other one as a library backed up just by elm-test.
Anyway I will not focus on nether of these projects.**

## Lets get started

You can check or clone whole 0.16 version code from Github under v0.16 tag.
With our legacy code and Upgrading to 0.17 guide opened we are ready to try what new Elm is about.

## New dependencies

This is pretty straight forward. We can almost copy/paste this part from upgrade guide so Lets open elm-package.json in your favorite Emacs and get it done.

**Old version:**
```json
{
    "version": "1.0.0",
    "summary": "helpful summary of your project, less than 80 characters",
    "repository": "https://github.com/user/project.git",
    "license": "BSD3",
    "source-directories": [
        "."
    ],
    "exposed-modules": [],
    "dependencies": {
        "deadfoxygrandpa/elm-test": "3.1.0 <= v < 4.0.0",
        "elm-lang/core": "3.0.0 <= v < 4.0.0",
        "evancz/elm-effects": "2.0.1 <= v < 3.0.0",
        "evancz/elm-html": "4.0.2 <= v < 5.0.0",
        "evancz/elm-http": "3.0.0 <= v < 4.0.0",
        "evancz/start-app": "2.0.2 <= v < 3.0.0"
    },
    "elm-version": "0.16.0 <= v < 0.17.0"
}
```

**New version:**
```json
{
    "version": "1.0.0",
    "summary": "helpful summary of your project, less than 80 characters",
    "repository": "https://github.com/user/project.git",
    "license": "BSD3",
    "source-directories": [
        "."
    ],
    "exposed-modules": [],
    "dependencies": {
        "elm-lang/core": "4.0.0 <= v < 5.0.0",
        "elm-lang/html": "1.0.0 <= v < 2.0.0",
        "evancz/elm-http": "3.0.1 <= v < 4.0.0"
    },
    "elm-version": "0.17.0 <= v < 0.18.0"
}
```

*Note: As you can see I’m a little bit sloppy. Almost all meta is not filled out but since this was never published (and never will be) as package we just leave it as it is for now.
One more thing to mention is that there is elm-test specified as dependency in legacy version but I actually never used it in this project. This is why it’s not in updated version.*


```haskell
[ div
  [ class “repo-main”
  , Events.onClick address (SelectRepo repo) ]
```



```bash
$ elm-package install
```
